Distributed web infrastructure

Image link
https://imgur.com/a/j8xIb05


Brief description
This is an improvement over the simple web stack. It has an additional 
server and a load balancer.


Why the extras?
-> Extra server — Allows incoming traffic to be distributed.

-> Load balancer — This is to distribute incoming traffic across multiple 
servers for improved performance and availability.


What distribution algorithm is configured for the load balancer and 
how does it work?
-> Round Robin algorithm — It works by sequentially forwarding incoming requests 
to each server in turn, ensuring equal distribution of traffic.


Is the load balancer enabling an Active-Active or Active-Passive setup? What’s the difference between both?
-> Active-active setup. In an active-active setup, both the servers are actively 
serving traffic and the load balancer distributes requests across them which 
ensures high availability. On the other hand, in an active-passive setup, only 
one server is actively serving traffic, while the other server remains on 
standby. If the active server fails the passive server takes over.


How does a database Primary-Replica (Master-Slave) cluster work?
In a Primary-Replica cluster, the Primary node(Master) handles all write 
operations (insert, update, delete) and replicates the changes to one or more 
Replica nodes(Slaves). The Replica nodes serve read-only queries, improving read 
scalability and providing fault tolerance.


What is the difference between the Primary node and the Replica node in regard 
to the application?
-> The Primary node handles write operations and is responsible for maintaining the 
authoritative copy of the data. The application interacts with the primary node 
for its write operations.

-> The Replica nodes replicate data from the Primary node and serve read-only 
queries from the application. They provide additional capacity for handling read 
traffic.


Even with the improvements, this setup has some issues:

-> Single Point of Failure — Since only a single load balancer is available, if 
it fails, incoming traffic won’t be distributed properly.

-> Security issues — There is no mention of firewalls or HTTPS, leaving the 
infrastructure vulnerable to various threats, such as unauthorized access and 
data interception.

-> No monitoring — Without monitoring in place, it becomes difficult to detect 
and troubleshoot issues such as performance bottlenecks, resource utilization, 
and server failures in real-time.

